Dictionary Documentation with Boilerplate-Aligned Examples (#555)
commerce-docs/microsite-commerce-storefront: src/content/docs/dropins/all/dictionaries.mdx

---
title: Dictionary Customization Guide
description: Learn how to customize drop-in dictionaries for localization, branding, and multi-language support.
sidebar:
  label: Dictionaries
  order: 9
---

import { Aside, Steps, Tabs, TabItem } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

Every drop-in includes a **dictionary** with all user-facing text. Customize it to localize for different languages, match your brand voice, or override default text. The drop-in **deep-merges** your custom values with defaults—you only specify what you want to change.

<Aside type="tip" title="Which guide do I need?">
- **Using the boilerplate?** → See [Labels](/dropins/all/labeling/) for the placeholder system  
- **Want conceptual understanding?** → You're in the right place (deep-merge behavior, multi-language patterns, advanced use cases)
- **Need specific drop-in keys?** → See individual dictionary pages: [Cart](/dropins/cart/dictionary/), [Checkout](/dropins/checkout/dictionary/), [Product Details](/dropins/product-details/dictionary/), etc.
</Aside>

## Quick start

<Steps>

> 1. **Find the dictionary keys:** Check your drop-in's dictionary page ([Cart](/dropins/cart/dictionary/), [Checkout](/dropins/checkout/dictionary/), etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Find the dictionary keys:** Check your drop-in's dictionary page ([Cart](/dropins/cart/dictionary/), [Checkout](/dropins/checkout/dictionary/),and so on).
```

2. **Create your overrides:**

   ```javascript title="src/config/custom-dictionary.js"
   export const customDictionary = {
     Cart: {
       MiniCart: {
         heading: "Shopping Basket ({count})",  // Only override what you want
         cartLink: "View Basket"
       }
     }
   };
   ```

> 3. **Pass it to initialize():**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. **Pass it to `initialize()`:**
```

    ...cartDictionary,
  },
};

await initializers.mountImmediately(initialize, { langDefinitions });
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Use JSON">

```json title="scripts/config/dictionaries/en_US.json"
{
  "Cart": {
    "MiniCart": {
      "heading": "Cart ({count})"
    }
  }
}
```

```javascript title="scripts/initializers/cart.js"
import { initializers } from '@dropins/tools/initializer.js';
import { initialize } from '@dropins/storefront-cart/api.js';
import enUS from '../config/dictionaries/en_US.json';

const langDefinitions = {
  default: {
    ...enUS,
  },
};

await initializers.mountImmediately(initialize, { langDefinitions });
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem label="Load from CMS">

```javascript title="scripts/initializers/cart.js"
import { initializers } from '@dropins/tools/initializer.js';
import { initialize } from '@dropins/storefront-cart/api.js';

const translations = await fetch('/api/translations/cart/en_US')
  .then(res => res.json());

const langDefinitions = {
  default: {
    ...translations,
  },
};

await initializers.mountImmediately(initialize, { langDefinitions });
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Finding the dictionary keys

**Drop-in dictionary pages:**  

> [Cart](/dropins/cart/dictionary/) • [Checkout](/dropins/checkout/dictionary/) • [Order](/dropins/order/dictionary/) • [Product Details](/dropins/product-details/dictionary/) • [Product Discovery](/dropins/product-discovery/dictionary/) • [User Account](/dropins/user-account/dictionary/) • [User Auth](/dropins/user-auth/dictionary/) • [Wishlist](/dropins/wishlist/dictionary/)

Reviewer: Is this necessary? This list will be expanding further with B2B

Author: Removed

**In the source:** `node_modules/@dropins/storefront-cart/src/i18n/en_US.json`

**On GitHub:** [Cart](https://github.com/adobe-commerce/storefront-cart/blob/main/src/i18n/en_US.json) • [Checkout](https://github.com/adobe-commerce/storefront-checkout/blob/main/src/i18n/en_US.json) • (etc.)

---

## Best practices

<Steps>

> 1. **Keep placeholders** - Values with `{count}`, `{price}`, etc. must keep these placeholders for dynamic data injection

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Keep placeholders** - Values with `{count}`, `{price}`, and so on, must keep these placeholders for dynamic data injection
```
